It'’s them!
Get ready.
Two more prisoners
coming in!
Prepare for docking!
In position!
Easy!
Gate secure!
Prisoner walking!
Oh, great.
Another cellmate.
No offense, pal.
You seem lovely.
Uh...
Let'’s show you around.
Get you situated here.
This is the bucket where
our pee freezes. And, um...
Yeah, that'’s it.
What'’s your name, lass?
Uh, That'’s Holga.
I'’m Edgin. And you are?
I'’ve been in a lot of cells.
Never shared one with a female.
Think I'’m gonna like it.
Word of advice,
Holga doesn'’t love
to be disturbed while
she'’s eating her potatoes.
Kind of the highlight
of her day.Shut up, you!
Sure thing. Have at it.
Little shy, eh?
I'’m not so bad once
you get to know me.
Mmm.
Don'’t be like that.
We could be very happy to--
I think I'’m gonna
do this without fingers
and make it a mitten.
Who am I trying to impress?
♪ Not fortune found
Nor fate divine♪
♪ Come close to toping
The juice of the vine♪
♪ With cherry crew
We sip and sway♪
♪ Let'’s tip the tankard
And waste the day♪
Oi! Stop that singing!
You got it, Tobias.
The Absolution Council
is tomorrow.
Don'’t get
your hopes up, Ed.
What are you talking about?
Jarnathan is on the council
this time. He'’s an Aarakocra.
If anyone'’s gonna free us,
it'’s him.
Not gonna happen.
I tell you, Holga, this is
your last day chopping ice.
By authority
of the Lords'’ Alliance,
this Absolution Council
will now come to order
in the case of Edgin Darvis
and Holga Kilgore.
This is the second year of
incarceration for the crimes
of grand larceny
and skullduggery.
It is the task of this council
to determine your eligibility
for pardon.
What say you?
Thank you, Chancellor Anderton,
esteemed members of the council.
Before I begin, I notice
that Chancellor Jarnathan
is not present.
Should we perhaps wait?
Chancellor Jarnathan was delayed
by the storm. You may begin.
I see. It'’s just that I--
we were really counting
on him to attend.
Begin or waive
your statement.
Very well.
I should start
by giving you some context.
You may be surprised to learn
I wasn'’t always a thief.
Years ago, I became a member
of the Harpers faction,
a network of spies who
swear an oath to fight tyranny,
defend the oppressed
and to ask nothing in return.
My wife, Zia,
supported my decision,
even though she knew the risks.
By day,
I'’d eavesdrop on mercenaries,
stop bandits in their tracks...
and even bring
Thayan Red Wizards to justice.
By night, I'’d come home
to my loving wife,
and daughter, Kira.
To be honest, there were times
when I began to question
the "asking nothing in return"
part of my oath.
But my wife would always say,
"You don'’t have
to give us everything,
you only have to give us you."
So what'’s the latest
on Jarnathan?
Is he close by?
Because I can wait.
Did you not hear what we said?Right, the storm.
It'’s just that based on
what I know about Jarnathan,
I think he'’d be especially
receptive to my story.
And I'’d hate to have to wait
a whole other year
to come back in here and--Proceed.
Absolutely. Here we go.
When you'’re a Harper,
you'’re bound to make enemies.
And sometimes those enemies
come looking for revenge.
No cleric can repair the damage
from a Red Wizard'’s blade.
There was no way to revive her.
When Zia died,
so did my devotion to my oath.
I'’m sorry, it'’s just hard
to relive this...
-without Jarnathan here.
-Again with this?
But he missed the most
important part of my backstory!
How can he judge me
without knowing my motivation?
We are entirely capable
of deciding your case
without Jarnathan.
-Get on with it!
-Fine. Where was I? Uh...
By night, I'’d come home
to my loving wife,
and daughter Kira.
You went back too far.
Stop stalling!
Right, sorry.
Yeah, broad strokes.
The next few months
were among my most shameful.
That'’s when I met Holga.
She took pity on me.
Well,
she took pity on the baby.
Holga was a fellow resident
of rock bottom.
Many years before, she'’d
been cast out of her tribe
for falling in love
with an outsider.
We quickly became like
brother and sister.
With a relationship built
on trust and mutual respect.
Neither of us had money
or an honest way to earn it,
so we decided to table "honest"
and we tried something new.
It'’s intoxicating
when you realize
that what separates you
from what you'’ve always wanted
can be as thin
as a pane of glass.
You may be wondering how
we could carry on
this criminal lifestyle
with a young girl at home.
Well, we didn'’t
leave her at home.
Hurry, hurry! Run, run, run!
Kira wasn'’t
the only new recruit.
We also added Simon,
a so-so sorcerer,
and a con man named Forge,
who pushed us to aim
even higher.
Before long, we became a team.
Yes, we were thieves,
but I tried to hold us
to a certain standard.
We never harmed anyone.
And we only robbed from those
who would feel it the least.
But everything changed
when we met the wizard Sofina.
We knew almost nothing
about her.
Only that she wanted our help
in robbing Korinn'’s Keep.
That'’s a Harper stronghold.
I don'’t know if you'’ve
heard of it.
I'’m sure Jarnathan has.
The keep was filled
with the priceless relics
seized from evildoers,
and only Harpers could
gain access to the vault.
Which is why Sofina came to us.
At first, I refused.
I wouldn'’t stoop that low.
But then Forge told me
that among the relics
in Korinn'’s Keep,
there was
a Tablet of Reawakening,
capable of bringing back
a single deceased person.
Even one killed
by a Red Wizard'’s blade.
You can probably see
where this is going.
Why can'’t I come?Sorry, Kir,
this one'’s too dangerous.
Then you shouldn'’t go.
We have everything
that we need.
Not yet.
But this is the last one.
Trust me.
Chin up, Bug.
We'’ll be right back.
I didn'’t tell her
about the tablet.
It would break her heart
if it all went to shit.
And, well,
to shit it went.
See you soon, love.
Intruders!
There they are!
We don'’t hurt anyone.
She'’s caught in the Time Stop!
Counter it, Simon!
I can'’t.
Sofina'’s too powerful.
Take the tablet.
Keep Kira safe.
You have my word.
The truth is, even if
this council were to sentence
me to another two years,
or 20 for that matter,
it would never be punishment
enough for the worst crime
I ever committed...
robbing my daughter
of her father.
But know that,
if you do choose to free me,
I'’ll spend the rest of my days
trying to right that wrong.
Anything you want to add?
I'’m good.
Before you announce
your decision,
I implore you
to please wait for--
Jarnathan!Pardon my belatedness.
I can'’t tell you how happy
I am to see you!Step away!
Holga, now!Guards!
Release me, sir!
She'’s throwing potatoes!
Oh, Jarnathan!
But we approved your pardon!
Fly, bird, fly!
He'’s still breathing.
I told you he'’d get us out!
Any sign of Kira?
Been empty for a while.
Where do you think
Forge took her?
I can'’t see him leaving
the Sword Coast.
Forge always liked cities.
Some supper
for you and your wife?
What? No.
She'’s not my wife.Me with that?
With those lips?That'’s so gross.
Just the drinks.
So, we take a boat
down to Baldur'’s Gate
and then head north.
And while we'’re
looking for Forge,
I'’ll pay Marlamin a visit.
You sure you really want
to put yourself through that?
What if he doesn'’t want
to talk to you?It'’s not about what he wants.
Okay.It'’s about closure.
He sent you a letter saying
he wasn'’t your husband anymore.
Wasn'’t that closure?
You wouldn'’t understand.I don'’t.
I clearly, clearly don'’t.
Is that...
Son of a bitch.
Forge is
Lord of Neverwinter.
How did that clown
pull that off?
Well, as long as he'’s got Kira,
I don'’t care.
Come on. Let'’s go.
Thanks, pal.
What'’s wrong with my lips?
They'’re too big
for your face.What?
A lot of people
like my lips.
I'’ve never seen
this place so crowded.
Must be coming in
for the High Sun Games.
Yeah, my dad
took me to the last one
before they were outlawed.
Anyone win?
Well, one contestant made it
to the final round
before a monster ate
his upper body, so...
no.
It'’s nice to see
that Forge hasn'’t lost
his sense of modesty.
How long has it been?Two years.
No, how long have
we been waiting here?
Dad.
Holga?
Kira.
Oh!
-I missed you so much.
-Hello, Bug.
-Come here.
-Hi.
Oh.
I thought about you
every day.
I made you these.
-What are they?
-Mittens!
Oh. Thanks.
Have you been okay?
Uncle Forge has been
very good to me.
"Uncle" Forge?
Come on.
He wants to see you.
I still wear the pendant
you got me, Holga.
I use it to sneak around
the castle sometimes.
So strange that you'’re here.Hey, Kir, look.
I want you to know I am so sorry
for how things turned out.
I took a risk.
And it didn'’t pay off.
Why do you look mad at me?
Because you'’re acting like
it wasn'’t your fault.
There they are!
Oh!
Old friends.
What a wonderful surprise. Come.
Oh?
Do I spy
a little bit of gray?
I do. I like it.
It'’s scoundrelly
but professorial.
You look like a--
What do you look like?
You look like
a well-read fisherman
with secrets.
And Holga.
I know you don'’t
like hugs.
But I need one. Yes?
-Oh.
-Mmm. Mmm.
Mmm! Mmm.
These last years
must have been dreadful,
but I tell you what,
I did think you'’d serve longer.
Oh! Uh, we-- We got an...
early release.
Good behavior.Yeah, behaving good.
Ah. I see.
Well, welcome. Welcome back.
Oh, that'’s blistering.
That'’s blisteringly hot.
Yet again.
Kira, we really should speak
to the kitchen staff,
because there'’s simply no need
for it to be this hot.
Yeah, yeah, the tea'’s hot.
So, how are you
the Lord of Neverwinter?
Right. Before you went off
to prison, you charged me
with Kira'’s well-being.
Didn'’t think much of it
at the time.
But there came a moment
when I looked into her eyes,
and I suddenly knew
I had to be a better man.
Obviously, I couldn'’t give back
the treasures we'’d stolen,
so when Lord Neverember
fell ill,
I seized the chance to try and,
you know, make a difference.
And the money from Korinn'’s Keep
paved the way for my campaign.
But I will tell you this...
Couldn'’t have done it alone.
Ah! And here she is!
You remember Sofina.
You'’re still working with her?She'’s the one
that got us caught.
Not true, no.
Without her,
we all would have been caught.
And since then,
she has become...
my top adviser. Mmm.
The tea is scorching,
I do apologize.
It'’s scorching hot.
Um, Sofina.
Would you mind very much, um...
Certainly.
Hmm.
Good. Thank you. I-- I'’m...
I didn'’t realize you were
gonna put your finger
in the cup, so...
I'’m gonna leave that for later.
Well, if you'’ll give us
the tablet, Kira, Holga
and I will be on our way.
Of course that'’s why
you came back.
No, it wasn'’t for me.
It was for that
Tablet of Riches.
Riches?
No, it'’s-- it'’s
the Tablet of Reawakening.
I'’m sorry, what'’s this now?
The reason why
I agreed to the heist.
Is that what he'’s told you?
That I left you for more riches?
I told her the truth.
She has a right to know it.
He'’s been lying
to you, Kira.
I wanted to-- I wanted
to bring your mother back.
Oh, Ed, come on.
Look, I know how much
you crave her forgiveness,
but I promise you,
more lies is not the way.
You snake!
You know damn well
what he was after.
Why wouldn'’t you tell me
if you were doing it for Mom?
Because I didn'’t want you
to lose her again if I failed.
But you can'’t blame
the poor girl
for distrusting you.
After all,
you have been lying since
you set foot in the room,
haven'’t you?
-You escaped?
-We were trying
to get back to you, Bug.
Kira, look at me.
I swear to you, it was
a Tablet of Reawakening.
I was doing it for Mom,
for all of us.
You have to trust me.
You told me to trust you
when you left me.
Kira, no, wait, wait!
Kira!
Give her time,
give her time.
She'’s had years to resent you
for your absence.
And you'’ve had years
to poison her against me.
No, that is not true.
We very rarely
spoke of you at all.
Give him what he came for.The tablet?
I don'’t think
I will be returning it.
Or your daughter,
for that matter.
You bastard!
And now you'’re in the floor!
Oh, I hate to see that.
Sofina really is a very,
very powerful wizard!
You'’d have thought that
you'’d have learned that
the last time she trapped you.
You always wanted us
to get caught.
No, I wanted you and Simon
to get caught, but he managed
to escape somehow.
All these years together,
and you double-cross us
for this witch?
Never put your trust
in a con man.
Save for this...
Kira really is happy
and very well
taken care of here,
and I have truly come
to love her as my own.
I never actually saw the appeal
of being a father
till I became one.
But to have another person
look up to you
and allow you to shape them
in your own image.
It'’s a bit like a god!
Well, hang on,
I'’m a god and a lord.
I am really doing all right!
Blackwood?
Could you possibly
return them to prison?
And be sure
to collect the bounty.
Well, I must away.
I am expecting two
of the wealthiest men from
Baldur'’s Gate and Waterdeep
to talk about
the High Sun Games,
which are back!
So there'’s something, isn'’t it?
It was genuinely lovely
to see you both.
Ah! Ah!
Holga! Holga! Holga!
Kill both of them.
We got to get her out
of there.We will.
But we need to think
of our own hides right now.
-Yeah, you got this, right?
-I know you don'’t.
On your knees.
Handsome blade.
Is that the work
of Ghelryn Foehammer?
How did you know?
The inlay on the haft.
Oh.
How'’s the weight? Does it parry?
It'’s darksteel.
Mmm. Very nice.
Now put your heads down.
Wait!
What do you clean it with?
You'’re about
to lose your head.
This is what
you'’re concerned with?
If you wouldn'’t mind.
Boiled linseed oil.
Once a month.
Should be once a week.
That'’s why you'’re getting
rust on the bit.
Okay, chop it off.Chop it off, let'’s do it.
Get her!
Stop her!
Oh, we got '’em now!
-Before we leave the city--
-Get boiled linseed oil, I know.
Knock, knock.
I wanted to make sure
you were all right.
I knew I'’d see him again
one day.
I just hoped
it would be different.
Well, you have
to understand that
when he lost your mother,
he sort of lost himself.
Why did he lie
about the tablet?
Maybe he was ashamed to admit
how much he'’d given up
for so little.
I should probably go
speak to him.
What?
Well, he'’s gone, my dear.
He'’s gone.
I gave him
the Tablet of Riches and...
he left.
Holga, too?
I'’m sorry.
And I want you to know that
even if he isn'’t there for you,
I always will be.
I know.
The fact that
you see good in me,
makes me believe that there
might just be some in there.
We could shoot an arrow
with a message into her room.
What if it hits her?That'’s a risk we'’re gonna
have to take.
Killing my daughter with
an arrow? No, it'’s not.
Even if she got the message,
she wouldn'’t come.
She thinks of...
Forge as her dad.
We have to get into that castle
and take her out ourselves.
That'’s crazy, Ed.
Castle Never'’s tighter than
Korinn'’s Keep, and you know
what happened with that.
We'’re gonna need a team.
Team?
Who'’s gonna help us out?
We have nothing
to pay them with.Yeah, but Forge does.
He said the richest people
were coming to bet on
the High Sun Games.
There'’ll be a fortune
in that vault.Yeah.
Not to mention the tablet.
And then Kira will
know that--
We abandoned her
for the right reason.
I wouldn'’t put it like that,
but, uh, yeah. Yeah.
Who do we get
for this team?
You know, I wonder
if Simon'’s still in Triboar.
Simon'’s a terrible sorcerer.
We haven'’t seen him
in two years.
I'’m sure he'’s gotten better.
No one can hold a candle
to this trick.
How about this one?
You people like the smell
of fresh-cut grass?
Smell that?
It'’s fresh-cut grass.
My five-year-old can
do that magic.
But can he do this?
Boo.
He hasn'’t gotten better.
I don'’t think it'’s about
what he'’s doing up there.
This is quite hard
to be slightly blurry
like this, you know.
Anyone can be very blurry,
but to be slightly blurry,
that'’s the real magic.
Is that...
What? What was...
Hey!
He'’s nickin'’
our bits and bobs!
It'’s not what you think.
It'’s all part of the act.
He'’s lying.
Get him!
Shield spell!
That wasn'’t a shield spell.
I am not loving this show.
You'’re a dead man!
-Simon?
-Holga!
-Staying for an encore?
-Get me out of here.
I could'’ve warned you
Forge was a prick.
Soon as we left that vault,
Sofina tried to kill me
and he just stood by.
You know, there'’s rumors she
made Lord Neverember fall ill
to clear the way for Forge.
Her magic is
on a whole other level.
Don'’t sell yourself short.
We saw your show.
Yeah, you can hit her with
that fresh-cut grass trick.
That'’s funny.
Look, I don'’t blame you
for wanting to save Kira,
and I love the idea of
knocking Forge off his perch,
but robbing Castle Never
isn'’t worth the risk.
And robbing your audience is?
How broke are you?Desperately.
I was planning on sleeping
in the theater tonight,
but now that seems imprudent.So?
Do we even know what sort
of arcane magic is
protecting the vault?
We'’re gonna find out!How?
You gonna sneak past
the entire Castle Watch?
Me? No.
A druid maybe, a Wild Shape.
They could get in and out
undetected as a--
as a mouse or a...A deer.
Yes, a deer!
It'’ll blend in with all
the other deer in the castle.
Don'’t mock me.
Where can we find a druid?
I know a druid. Doric.
She'’s truly one of a kind.
Sounds romantic in nature.
Yeah. For me it was.
She, however, found my lack
of self-esteem unattractive.
Not your best trait.
Thank you.
In the name
of Forge Fitzwilliam,
the prisoner is hereby sentenced
to death by dismemberment,
for the crime of speaking ill
of our leader.
The Emerald Enclave
will never relent!
Justice cannot be killed!
On my command.
Your Doric'’s a bit of a radical.Ready?
Oh, no, that'’s not Doric.
Move in!
Kill her!
That'’s her.
What is that again?It'’s an owlbear.
-How high is this place?
-It'’s just up here.
Stay where you are!Wait! Wait! It'’s me!
Simon.Simon who?
Ouch.
Simon Aumar. Sorcerer.
I courted you.
You said I made you feel sad.
Not from anything I did,
just from who I was.
Oh.
-Yeah.
What are you doing here?
We need a deer.We don'’t need a deer.
We'’re gonna take down
Forge Fitzwilliam.
So, how'’d you come
to live here?
I was born to humans who
decided they didn'’t want
a tiefling child.
Uh-huh.The wood elves took me in.
I joined the Emerald Enclave
to protect them.
That'’s all the more reason
to join us.
You'’re the only one who can
get into that castle unseen
and tell us what
we'’re dealing with.
As you can imagine,
I don'’t trust humans.
I find you to be
hateful and selfish.
Well, I'’m finding you to be
a little mean.
If it helps,
I'’m only half-human.
But you'’re a bad sorcerer.
No, Simon--
He'’s a mighty sorcerer!
He'’s a descendant
of Elminster Aumar.
The only way to succeed in this
is to have confidence
that it can be done.
He doesn'’t.Yeah, I suppose that'’s fair.
Look, Simon may not have my wit
or Holga'’s strength,
but when it counts,
this young man delivers.
It'’s why I chose him.He'’s also the only sorcerer
you know.
Holga, not helpful.
What is it exactly
that you bring to this?
Me? I'’m a planner. You know?
I make plans.
You'’ve already made the plan,
so what value do you have now?
If, uh, the plan fails--
the existing plan--
I make a new plan.
So you make plans
that fail.
No.He also plays the lute.
Holga, not relevant.
Trust me, I'’m indispensable.
Well,
none of the plans we'’ve tried
to take down Forge have worked.
We dared to question
how he came to power,
so he declared us enemies.
Began destroying our homes
and executing our people.
If we don'’t stop Forge soon,
there'’ll be nothing left
to defend.
I'’m not doing this
for the money.
I'’m doing this for
the people who took me in
when no one else would.
So we'’ll keep
your share then.
I sense your impatience.
Szass Tam.
But you have always been
the disciple I rely on most.
Doff your cowl.
You needn'’t hide your sigils
from me.
I'’d rather be flensed and flayed
than spend another hour
with Forge Fitzwilliam.
The man is insufferable.
But we never would have
come this far without
his "charm."
The living have befouled
this world long enough.
Take solace in knowing
that your work here
is nearly complete.
There you are!
With your hood off,
I notice.
Probably best
to keep that on.
You know,
you Red Wizards of Thay
are not as popular as you
should be outside Thay.
And, of course, you'’re about
to be considerably less popular.
But far, far be it from me
ever to tell you what to do.
Caldwell and Piradost
have arrived.
I was gonna give them--
Awful, isn'’t it? I really
have to do something about
these chairs.
They'’re, uh...
Now, I think you will find
that we have taken
every imaginable measure
to protect the assets
that you may-- or may not--
choose to wager
during the High Sun Games.
We have new portcullises
on every wing of the castle.
If the alarm is raised,
nobody gets in or out.
And then there is...
the vault itself.
My chief adviser, Sofina,
can give you all the details.
It is protected by
the Arcane Seal of Mordenkainen.
Well, uh...
perhaps not
all the details, but, uh,
suffice to say it is
a seriously powerful spell.
Might I inquire,
what prompted you
to resume the games?
Lord Neverember
considered them
quite brutal.
Lord Neverember and I are
very different men.
For example, I prefer
to be up and about.
He prefers to be
in a vegetative state.
You are terrible.
I can be naughty. No, I--
The truth is that the games
bring the city together
like nothing else.
And it is not the role
of government to deny
the people what they crave.
Or to deny you rich bastards
the right to profit off them.
Now who wants refreshments?
Silence!
A Wild Shape is among us.
Hey!
Stop!
I can'’t grab her!
So she did become a deer.
Only at the very end.
Are you absolutely sure
about Sofina?I saw her markings.
No wonder I couldn'’t counter
her Time Stop.
Forge knew all along.
He'’s got my daughter in there
with a Red Wizard.
The vault is protected
by something called
"Morty Kamen'’s Arcane Seal."
Mordenkainen?
Yeah, that'’s it.Oh, pity.
What?If the vault has
Mordenkainen'’s Seal,
we'’re not getting in.
It'’s impenetrable.
Can'’t you just open it
with magic?
Okay, here we go.
I hate how everyone thinks
that you can solve
any problem with magic.
There are limits.
This isn'’t some bedtime story.
This is the real world.So there'’s no way to open it?
No, I mean, if I were one
of the world'’s most powerful
sorcerers, so, no.
Or if we had
the Helm of Disjunction.
The what?
It'’s a helmet that disables
all nearby enchantments.
But it doesn'’t matter.
The thing went missing
ages ago. We'’re done.
Huh? Come on.
What'’s the problem?
We can find that helmet.
Even if we did, I couldn'’t
use it without attuning to it,
which I'’m terrible at.
You can do it.
I know you can.
You saying that
doesn'’t make it so.Yeah, but you saying it does.
But I can'’t.But you can.
But I won'’t.Just say it.
No!Fine.
Can we just keep this
between us?
I don'’t want to hurt
the group'’s morale.What morale?
Holga knows where the helmet is.You do?
My tribe fought
the Cult of the Dragon
over it at the Evermoors.
We could just ask them
where it went.
That battle was a century ago.
They'’re all dead.
So? Ask them with magic.
He just made a whole speech
how he can'’t fix everything
with magic.
Actually,
that is something I can do.
You can bring back
the dead?
I can'’t, uh, bring them back,
but I have this token
that lets me ask corpses
some questions,
and then they go back
to being dead.
Yuck.Yeah, it'’s fairly horrible.
It'’s fairly wonderful.
We'’re off to the Evermoors.
Thank you, Simon,
for the drinks.
Oh, what? No--
Just pay it with magic.
The Wild Shape
must be in league with
Forge'’s former partners.
Perhaps Forge is
working against us?
As long as he profits,
he will not interfere
with Szass Tam'’s conquest.
I will find these thieves.
Before you go,
the men behind us
allowed them to escape.
Understood.
He'’s a Thayan!
Hey, Ed.
Huh?Look where we are.
Marlamin? Really?
Why would you do that
to yourself?
I'’m just gonna pick up
some of my things.
He painted the shutters.
Pretty.
Holga!
Hello, Marlamin.
-That'’s Marlamin?
-Oh, yeah.
We were all a little surprised
the first time we met him.
I thought your sentence
was longer.
I busted out of there.
Same old Holga.
So what have you
been up to?
Oh.
The usual.
I'’ve got my garden.
I'’m working on my book.
I see you still have
that walking stick
I gave you.
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, you can take it with you
if you want.
Gwinn'’s not much for rambling.Gwinn?
You home, darling?In here.
Oh! Squashed a pack
of bullywugs down at the--
Oh. Hello.
Who'’s this, then?Oh, Gwinn, this is Holga.
Oh.
Heard a lot about you.
I'’d shake your hand,
but, uh...
Pleasure.
How long you in town for?
Um, just passing through.
Gonna talk to some corpses
south of Nesmé.
Oh. Great, yeah.
Gonna get washed up for supper.
What we having?
I cured a goose
and I gathered
some pickleberries.
Mmm.
Nice meeting you, Holga.Yeah.
So how long have you two--Going on a year.
Does she make you happy?
Happier than I did?
Well, I'’ll put it this way:
She makes her living honestly.
She doesn'’t
drink herself silly.
And she doesn'’t make me weep
in the small hours,
wondering where she is.
I was in pain.
I was banished
from my damn tribe
to be with you.
And I tried to build us a home
so you could forget that.
But you never could.
Gwinn seems lovely.
You deserve that.
Thank you.
You know, when you left,
I lost my family.
I'’ve been fortunate enough
to find another.
And I wish nothing less
than that for you.
My sweet, old Ho-Ho.
We'’re gonna take down Forge.
I'’m gonna show Marlamin
and the Elk tribe
they were fools to let me go.
♪ Not fortune found
Nor fate divine♪
♪ Come close to toping
The juice of the vine♪
♪ With cherry crew
We sip and sway♪
♪ Let'’s tip the tankard
And waste the day♪
♪ Ree-raw! Well, ye ken♪
♪ Our toils can wait
For a time♪
♪ We saw the folly of men♪
♪ Who rather than revel repine♪
♪ Ree-raw! Well, ye ken♪
♪ Our toils can wait
For a time♪
♪ We saw the folly of men♪
♪ Who rather than revel repine♪
So many of my kin gave
their lives in battle here.
I'’d always imagined
I'’d be buried in
sacred ground like this.
Yeah.
Anyone got a shovel?
Okay, Simon,
how does this work?
I read the incantation
on this cleric'’s token.
Should be here somewhere.
Here!
All right. Once the dead man
is revived, we can ask him
five questions,
at which point
he will die again,
never to be re-revived.
Why five questions?
I don'’t know,
that'’s just how it works.Seems arbitrary.
Can we get on with this, please?Right, yes.
Delightful.
Maybe I'’m not saying it right.
I wasn'’t scared,
merely startled.
Here we go.
Were you killed in
the Battle of the Evermoors?
Yes.Great!
I mean, not for you.
Sorry for your loss.
Four more questions, right?
Yes.
No. No, no,
that wasn'’t for you.
Did that count
as a question?
-Yes.
-Damn it.
Only answer when
I talk to you, okay?
Yes.Why did you say "okay?"
at the end of that?
I didn'’t.
Fantastic. Where'’s the shovel?
Toke Horgath.
During the battle, did you see
the Helmet of Disjunction?
It was in possession
of my chief,
Stanhard Grimwulf.
Okay, good.
And what did
Stanhard Grimwulf do with it?
As the cultists
breached the ridge,
we knew we outnumbered them.
But our advantage meant nothing
against the dragon Rakor.
Horgath!
Take this and run.
Keep it from Rakor
at all costs!
Understood, sir.
Don'’t worry.
That'’s the last thing
I remember.
Oh. Yeah, well...
Thanks for your help.
Let'’s go look
for Stanhard Grimwulf'’s grave.
Hang on! Hang on!Hmm?
Aren'’t you going to ask him
the last three questions?
Ask him what?
He already told us
everything he knows.
Well, you can'’t just
leave him like that.
Look at the poor bloke.
Oh, fine.
What'’s your favorite food?
Oats. No, barley!
Oh, boy.
Do you like cats?
Not really.
Okay.
What'’s two plus two?
I'’m bad at math.
Don'’t you feel better?No.
Oftentimes,
the most onerous decision
a leader can take
is when to retreat.
I issued the order.
I commanded my battle lord
to deliver the helmet
to our swiftest rider,
Ven Salafin.
If we can just make it
over the ridge, we can--
Not again.
It was the morning
of the battle.
As I stepped out my bath,
my foot slipped on the stone.
And then you went into
the battle?
No. I died. From the fall.
But Stanhard Grimwulf said
he gave the helmet
to Ven Salafin.
That'’s you, isn'’t it?
I'’m Sven Salafin.
Ven'’s my brother.
This is a nightmare.
Is Ven all right?
I was wounded
and had lost my horse
as I escaped
the field of battle.
I didn'’t care about myself.
I just needed
to keep the helmet safe.
It was a Thayan,
who bore the mark of Szass Tam.
I waited for the killing blow.
But it never came.
He had a kind way.
He told me
his name was Xenk Yendar.
He had fled Szass Tam
and now lived in exile.
As I died, he promised
to keep the helmet safe.
And for some reason,
I believed him.
You'’re joking.
A "kind" Thayan?
I speak truth.
You speak horseshit.
That Thayan lied
and you died for nothing.
The helmet'’s a dead end.
We'’ll have to find
another way into the vault.
No, I'’ve heard of Xenk.
He'’s a paladin.
He helped the Enclave
defeat the Clerics of Talos.
I know the name as well.
My uncle said Xenk
fended off a Beholder
using only a sharpened gourd.
A sharpened gourd?Something sharp.
The Thayans are murderers.
End of story.
What?
I'’ve heard of him, too.No.
He fought with my cousin
in the Anauroch.
He says he'’s a good man.
Well, you can all
go find this lovely Xenk
and braid each other'’s hair.
I'’ll find another way.
What'’s his problem?He'’s got a history
with the Thayans.
I know how you'’re feeling.
But we'’re running out of time.
I'’d be betraying Zia.
No, you wouldn'’t.
You'’d be doing it
to save her and Kira.
Look, if Xenk turns out
to be a prick,
I'’ll split him
right down the middle.
That'’s very sweet.What have we got to lose?
Anyone know where
stupid Xenk is?
Last I heard, he was
working with the Harpers
in Mornbryn'’s Shield.
Great! Harpers.
What'’s his problem
with Harpers?
He'’s got a history
with them too.
All right, let'’s go.
Excuse me?
I'’m still alive.
Right. Um...
What'’s your favorite book?
Mmm, hard to pick just one.
Fifth question, right?Yep.
Good.In terms of historical works,
I'’d say The Fanged Tome
of Lykanthus Szar.
That was only
the fourth question.
Hello?
Oh, shit.
Heave! Heave!
Come on,
we need more! Come on!
It'’s alive!
Thank you!
Thank you, sir.
He'’s interesting.I'’ve seen more interesting.
Ed, go talk to him.You go talk to him.
You know,
I'’ve pulled cats out of fish.
Xenk, is it?
That is a query
I prefer not to answer
without knowing
to whom I am speaking.
I'’m Holga Kilgore.
This is Simon, Edgin
and Doric back there.
And what brings you
to Mornbryn'’s Shield?You do.
We'’re trying to find
the Helmet of Dysfunction.
Disjunction.
Many lives were lost
in defense of that helm.
To speak of it would be
to diminish their sacrifice.
Janklee.
Jankleeto you as well,
good sir.
You'’re known as a man
of honor and integrity,
and I can assure you,
our reasons for wanting
the helmet are entirely noble.
Yep.
We'’re gonna rob someone.
Holga!
Not just anyone.
Forge Fitzwilliam.
And the Red Wizard of Thay
he'’s partnered with.
Come with me.
What is this place?
A Harper sanctuary.
But surely your friend Edgin
already knew that.
How'’d you know
I was a Harper?
You may have forsworn your oath,
but your oath
hasn'’t forsworn you.
Just because
that sentence is symmetrical
doesn'’t make it not nonsense.
Why do you wish
to rob Fitzwilliam?
He stole Edgin'’s daughter
and a great deal of treasure
from us.
Also a Tablet of Reawakening.
He doesn'’t need to know
all that.
I was just...
In other words,
Forge is a real son of a bitch.
So you blame his mother
for his corruption.
What?
No, it'’s an expression.
I see.
I do not traffic
in colloquialisms.
You'’re not a lot of fun,
are you?
If Fitzwilliam
is truly allied
with a Red Wizard,
their intentions must go
beyond the mere political.
Over a century ago,
the necromancer Szass Tam
was one of eight zulkirs
who ruled the nation of Thay.
Great, a history lesson.
But Tam'’s hunger for power
was absolute.
On the eve of the solstice,
residents of the capital
gathered for a celebration.
Unbeknownst to them,
or his fellow rulers,
Tam had a plan of his own:
to stage an unholy coup.
He unleashed
the Beckoning Death,
a spell that would consume
the souls
of all who beheld it,
enslaving them to his will.
With the aid
of his Red Wizards,
Szass Tam created an army
of the undead,
allowing him to conquer
the entire nation.
Szass'’s power extends no further
than the borders of Thay.
I suspect he and his Red Wizards
will not be content
until they have infected
the whole of Faerûn
with their maleficence.
You done?
Because we already know
that Red Wizards are bad.
And so does Forge.
The question remains,
if they helped him
to take power,
what do they stand to gain?
Sounds like we have
a common enemy.
You give us that helmet,
and we take Forge down.
No one stays Lord
without a fortune
to back him up.
And the Red Wizards
lose their puppet.
What will become
of the wealth you burgle?
What does that matter?
I will not be complicit
in the illicit use
of ill-gotten booty.
Uh... Fine. We'’ll divide it
amongst the townspeople.
Swear to it.What?
Place your hand
on this Harper'’s Seal
and swear that you will indeed
distribute all the wealth
you take
amongst the people
of Neverwinter.
Sure, fine.
Go on, Ed.
Promise you'’ll give
Forge'’s money to the people.
Promise I'’ll...
give Forge'’s money
to the people of Neverwinter.
Keep this.
You may not yet
believe your words, but I do.
Yeah. Good for you.
Simon, hold onto this.
Now, where'’s the helmet?
In the bowels of the Underdark.The Underdark?
Weren'’t you trying
to keep it safe?
Why would you put it down there?
Because it is the last place
that anyone
who values their life would go.
Sounds lovely.Quite the opposite.
I-I know. I was being ironic.
I find irony is a blade
that cuts he who wields it
most especially.
Yeah?
Is that what you find, Xenk?
There is an entrance east
of the Sword Mountains
in the Kryptgarden Forest,
from which we may descend
to the ruins of Dolblunde.
If I may be so bold,
what caused you
to renounce the Harpers?
Being a Harper
got my wife killed.
I'’m sorry.
Did her assailants find justice?
The Thayans, you mean?
No.
The Thayans
are not all malevolent.
I was a boy when Szass Tam
seized control of Thay.
I saw firsthand
the horrors of the spell.
Honorable men
turned to monsters.
Minds wiped clean in moments.
Parents
turning on their own child.
I escaped, alive,
but forever changed.
You and I have both lost
a part of ourselves.
All that matters
is what we do
with what remains.
I told you
what I'’m gonna do.
I'’m gonna break into
Castle Never
and get my family back.
And the tablet?
You plan to resurrect
your wife.Yeah.
Very well.
I'’d only ask that
you consider that this plane we
call "life" is but one of many.
Uh-huh.
To drag your lady-love
back to her old life
is to deprive her
of her new one.
Can someone else
ride next to this guy?
Follow me to the orifice.
The orifice?
The Underdark
has many entrances.
This is one of
the less conspicuous.
I'’ll go last.
It'’s a day'’s trek.
I'’ve chosen a path
to avoid the populace.
Stay close
and quiet.
Whatever you'’ve heard
of this place is merely
a fraction of its true danger.
Should the way
become too dim,
you may take my hand,
and I will lead you.
I'’ll tell you right now,
I'’m not taking his hand.
Keep your guard up.
I don'’t trust this guy.
Even though
he'’s helping us?
Ah, he'’s got something
up his sleeve.
The only thing up my sleeve
is my arm.
How could he hear that?I hear that as well.
I hate you.
The path to the ruins
is just here.
Keep still!
Rochnon.
Intellect devourers.
Small but formidable.
They stun their targets
and consume the brain,
taking control of the body.
What do we do?Make no sound.
They'’re drawn to mental energy.
The higher the intelligence
of the prey, the more likely
they are to strike.
Well, that'’s a little hurtful.
There it is.
The Hanging City of Dolblunde.
The helmet lies on the far side
of this chasm.
But be warned,
the bridge is protected
by an ancient Gnomish trap.
There is a precise formula
we must follow so as not to
trigger the mechanism.
What'’s the formula?It'’s quite simple.
Starting from the center,
use odd-numbered blocks only,
moving forward with each step,
except for every fifth step,
which must be a lateral move.
Left or right, it matters not,
so long as the leader
and the laggard
remain equidistant.
After which, proceed.
Again, odd-numbered blocks only.
However, at the midpoint
we switch
to even-numbered blocks.
Same pattern,
except now a lateral move
after the fourth step,
until we reach the three--
I--
I may have...
put my foot
on the bridge.
Didn'’t realize that'’s where
it technically started.
So... sorry.
It'’s not very
structurally sound.
Can'’t you just magic us across?
It'’s too far for telekinesis.
I'’ve got some rope in my bag.
I could tie it to the axe.
Toss it across
so it sticks to the rock.
You know rocks are hard, right?Shut up.
Where did you get that?
What,
Marlamin'’s walking stick?
I swiped it from a wizard
over in the Greypeaks.
That'’s not a walking stick.
It'’s a Hither-Thither staff.
A what?Should have a range
of around 500 yards.
Watch.
Hither.
Thither.
It works!
See?
Didn'’t even need the bridge!
I did good.
Good save.
This I give you now,
trusting that you will
protect it with your very life.
I will.
Hold this.
There is evil here.
Are those...
Thayan assassins.
You look older, Yendar.
Must be all that
foul mortal blood.
And you, Dralas,
look just as loathsome
as the last time we met.
Then I'’ll see to it
we don'’t meet again.
Leave them to me.
I'’m glad he'’s on our side.
We must flee.
Why? You killed them all.
'’Tis no simple feat
to kill that
which is already dead.
Ready for
the next bout, Yendar?
Quickly!
That'’s one pudgy dragon.
It'’s Themberchaud.
He must have found a new den.
Did he eat the last one?
I got you!
It'’s a dead end!
Simon! Up there!
Thanks for that.
You'’d have done
the same for me.
Yeah.
Bastard won'’t quit!
Come on! He'’s stuck!
So are we.
We'’re gonna drown!
Well, portal us out of here!I can only portal us
to what I can see!
You want to go from
that wall to that wall?
It'’s salt water.
Simon, you remember that trick
you did in Triboar?
Fresh-cut grass smell?
No, the flame finger one.
Yeah, why?Holga, hit him!
You want to make him angrier?
When I say so,
everybody goes underwater.
And that'’ll be your cue, Simon,
all right?
What are you looking at?
A Harper shaking off
his slumber.
Go, Holga!
Again!
Now!
This is where I leave you.
I wish you every success
on your journey.
You'’re not coming?Would that I could.
But this is your quest.
I have given you the tools.
You must utilize them.
Can'’t you utilize them for us?
Because you'’re much better
at fighting and strategy and...
Pretty much everything
but talking.
Talking to you
isn'’t great.
Mmm.
In those instances where
faith wanes and doubt waxes,
I recall
the Tenets of the Ancients...
Okay. See you later.
There he goes.
Just wandering off.
Walks in such a straight line.
Uh-oh. Wait a minute.
He'’s coming up on a rock.
Is he gonna go around?
Nope.
Right over the rock.
What are you mumbling?
I'’m preparing to attune.
If I can'’t connect with it,
it'’ll be useless.
That'’s a lot of pressure,
given all we went through
to get it.
Yeah, I realize that.
So our entire fate
rests on you.
Come on.
There he is,
the great Simon Aumar.
Sorcerer descended
from wizarding blood.
Who are you?
Don'’t you know me?
My name is Aumar too.
You'’re my
great-great grandfather.
That'’s quite a helm.
What makes you think
you'’re worthy of it?
I believe in myself?
You'’re asking me?
No, I'’m-- I'’m sure.
I'’m a great sorcerer.
Are you now?
Funny thing about magic.
It chooses who may wield it.
And it does not
suffer fools.
Why are you telling me this?
I think you know, Simon.
Did you attune with it?
You okay?
I got you.
What happened?
I, uh...
-I spoke to someone.
-Yeah?
My great-great grandfather.
He was...
unhelpful.
You spoke to him?
From here, it looked like
the helmet flew off
the second you put it on.
Well, time moves
differently there.
Okay,
I'’ll try a different approach.
Great. New approach. Try it.
You got this.
You'’re getting better.
You didn'’t fly as far.
Stick with it.
We have six hours till
we leave for Neverwinter.
You fail, I never
get my family back.
Brilliant.
I'’ve never seen
a bigger coward.
Coward?
You'’re under here, too.
Fine. I'’ll handle it.
No, no, no.
I'’ve got this.
And you want
to be a Harper.
Quiet!
Oh, God. Damn.
There it is.
Stop trying to capture it.
You just have to let it go.
Ed!
Ed! We'’ve got a problem.
I can'’t do it.
-The helmet?
-I'’ve been at it for hours!
I can'’t get past
the old bastard!
I said I couldn'’t attune.
Now I'’m the prat!
What'’s the racket?
He'’s having
a little trouble with the helm.
Come on, Simon,
just do it.
Oh. yeah, okay. Yeah.
Thanks, Holga. I'’ll just do it.
This is exactly what I told you
would happen back at the tavern,
but you wouldn'’t listen.What do you mean, you told him?
He said to keep it
between us for morale.
I--Do you know why?
Because he is the most pigheaded
person I'’ve ever known!
You talk us into doing things
you know won'’t work,
and then you blame us
when it goes pear-shaped!
If you can'’t attune,
we'’ll figure out a Plan B.
Plan B?
We dug up my family.
We went to the Underdark
for that helmet.
And you knew the whole time
that he couldn'’t use it?
You humans.
You just can'’t help but lie.
I didn'’t lie.
I really thought
Simon could do it.
Guys, look.
We got a couple hours
till the games begin.
This is what we do.
We pivot.
Instead of dwelling on
what went wrong
and who lied to whom,
let'’s put our heads together
and figure out a plan!
I'’m gonna figure out
my way home.
I can'’t believe I put
my faith in any of you.
Yeah, I'’m going too.
Sorry about Kira.
We'’ll find another way
to get her. Just not today.
It has to be today. We'’re not
done until my daughter'’s safe.
Aren'’t you sick of failing?
No! That'’s the whole point!
We must never stop failing,
because the minute we do,
we'’ve failed.
Huh?Look,
none of us here can say
our lives have gone
the way we had hoped for.
Right?
Holga.
You left your tribe
to be with a man
who left you because you were
so upset about leaving
your tribe.
And if you quit now,
that'’s in stone!
Same with you, Simon.
You'’re a petty thief
masquerading as
a pettier sorcerer.
You gonna go back to your show?It'’s better than dying.
There'’s worse things than dying.
And, Doric, you have integrity,
and I am sure the last thing
you want to do is tell
the Emerald Enclave
that you had a chance to save
them but you walked away.
Hey, You'’re quick
to call us failures.
What about you, Ed?
Me? I'’m the champion
of failures!
I lost everything
that ever mattered to me
and it was all my fault.
You want to know who
really killed my wife?
I did.
I decided we deserved
a better life than
a Harper'’s oath would allow us.
But I didn'’t know that
Red Wizards marked
their treasure.
I led them right to our door.
I didn'’t even have the good luck
to be home when they got there.
I failed the Harpers,
I failed my family,
I failed all of you.
Which is exactly why
I can'’t quit.
So if you'’ll excuse me,
I'’m gonna go sit on this rock
and make a plan.
Move over.
I'’d sit too, but there'’s
no more room on the rock.
How about this?
We use the Hither-Thither Staff
to get into the vault.
No, I'’ve explained this.
You can'’t Hither-Thither
into a room you can'’t see.
I'’m not saying that.
I'’m saying we put
the portal on something
and then sneak that thing
into the vault.
Mmm. The only thing going
in that vault is treasure.
So we put the portal
on some treasure.
Forge did say the richest men
in Baldur'’s Gate and Waterdeep
are bringing loot to the city.
They'’ll be traveling
the High Road.
We could catch
one of their convoys!There'’ll be dozens of guards.
Yeah, but the guards will
be guarding against people
taking things
out of their wagon,
not putting them in!
Holga, I could kiss you!Try it.
Perfect.
Thank you so much.
Oh!
What a profound joy
it is to welcome you,
the good people of Neverwinter,
to the resumption
of the High Sun Games!
I guarantee that you are in for
the most riveting spectacle
on all the Sword Coast.
The rules are very simple:
Five harrowing challenges.
Five teams of champions.
Whoever survives to reach
the Cage of Sanctuary
moves on to the next stage.
One thing: I do urge you,
please do not leave the arena
till the close of the games,
as there will be
a wonderful gift
for each and every one of you!
All right, take me down.
This is absurdly high.
It'’s not what we discussed.
Come on.
Gotta get it all done.
Oh, no.What happened?
It'’s facing the floor.
Why would they store it
that way?
Damn it.Why does nothing
go our way?
Let me try.
Maybe I can make a gap.
The games have started.
We'’re going to Plan C.Oh, bollocks. What'’s Plan C?
Plan C is we go back
to Plan A.
You'’re gonna attune
to the helmet.
Why don'’t you
just call it Plan A?
Plan A has a stink on it.You know damn well
I can'’t attune to the thing.
That'’s not true!
You couldn'’t attune to it.
Look at me.
Look at me! Huh?
Do you remember that job
in Loudwater?
You couldn'’t spider climb until
Jolym sicced his dog on you.
And when we robbed
the spear of Aoth Fezim,
your stoneskin spell failed
until the arrows were
inches away.
Even in Triboar, you flipped
the gravity of a whole theater!
You did?
By accident.
It was wild magic,
and that only happened
because they were gonna kill me.Exactly!
Look, you are
at your strongest
when you think
you'’re at your weakest.
But you deliver.
You'’re gonna get
into that vault, okay?
Not because you can...
but because you must.
I'’m gonna keep chipping away.
If I can get a quarter inch,
I'’ll be able to squeeze through
as a worm.
As a worm!
As a worm, perfect.
You see this? Now we have
a Plan D if Plan C fails.
Isn'’t Plan D
just Plan B again?
Plan B has a stink too.It all stinks.
Here. Use this
to keep in contact.
Well, um, this is a rock.
Actually it is...
...a sending stone.
But they'’ll only work
for an hour.
Clever.
So how we gonna
get in there?
Easy.
We just create a distraction.
Oh, I got a good feeling
about Plan C.
What'’s your business here?
♪ When the battle is over
Friends become lovers♪
♪ Sons embrace mothers
Brothers and dads♪
♪ Where once were contenders
Now are befrienders♪
♪ Oh, let'’s celebrate
Lasses and lads♪
♪ Where once were contenders
Now are befrienders♪
♪ Let'’s celebrate lasses--
Celebrate lasses--♪
♪ Celebrate lasses--♪
What'’s going on?
You'’re messing up my song!
My foot is stuck.
Concentrate, Simon.
♪ Brate-- brate-- brate--
Brate-- brate-- brate--♪
Brate-- brate--♪
What madness is this?
♪ Brate--♪
I think they'’re starting
to get suspicious.
Nine hells.
There! Interlopers!Come on!
Kira'’s room
should be up there.
Find the vault
and we'’ll meet you. Go!
Halt!
-There she is!
-Hold your weapons!
I'’ll hold them.
Find the vault.
You sure I can'’t help?I'’m certain.
Mmm, you don'’t
have to be so certain.Get her!
Now listen carefully.
I'’m with the Absolution Council.
They'’ve just gone up.
Go! Quickly!
Open up!
Just a minute!
I don'’t mind that.
Okay, you can do this.
Relax. No rush.
There he is!
Look who'’s back.
The would-be sorcerer.
I don'’t have time for this!Yet I have
all the time there is.
You don'’t get it.
We'’re going to die
if I don'’t attune!
So you die a fool.
It'’s better than to live as one.
That'’s enough!
You don'’t know me.
I know you'’re a stain
on your family name!
To hell with my name!
Let me attune!
Not while I live.You don'’t live!
You had your time.
Now it'’s my turn.
I won'’t allow it.
I don'’t care!
Sorry.
Took you long enough.
Simon!
Simon, was that you?
It was! I did it!
Well done.
I guess it was just me
holding me back.
That'’s what I'’ve been saying!
I made it inside the vault.
So did we.
There'’s nothing here.
What do you mean?
It'’s all here. Where are you?
Where are you?
I think I'’m under the arena.
Forge.
This one here.
Oh, that'’s not good.
Simon! Doric! You there?
What are you doing here?
Kir!
I came for you.
We have to go.
You left me.
No. No, I know you think
I'’m a liar and a bad father,
but--
I am a bad father.
And I did leave you.
And I wasn'’t trying
to bring your mom back.
I was trying to...
bring my wife back.
Which if-- maybe if you had
gotten a chance to know her
and love her like I did,
you'’d understand.
But if you come with me now,
you can have that chance.
Hmm.
You'’d think you'’d be
able to distinguish between
your own daughter
and a 300-year-old wizard.
Don'’t worry, Kira'’s safe.
Unlike me, she had no idea
you were coming.
I don'’t think she knows how
tenacious you'’ve become. Huh?
Look, Ed, um...
I'’m really sorry
about the way things
have worked out.
But I think if you were
truly honest,
you'’d have to admit I can
give Kira a better life.
I hope you can
take comfort in knowing
that she'’s with the father
she deserves, yeah?
And now I'’m in
a pickle because...
...I don'’t want
to see you die.
Which is why
I'’m gonna leave the room.
What?
If you'’re gonna kill us,
at least let us die
with dignity.
How do you mean?Put us in the High Sun Games.
Give us a fighting chance.That'’s not a chance.
It'’s not a chance at all.
I mean, even if you were
to somehow survive
the tournament,
Sofina'’s gonna...
It would be much, much better
for you to die here
than to go to the games.
No. They defeated
your men and mine.
Let them fight in the arena.
They deserve that much.
...to the games?
Oh. Yeah.
That was sort of a bad day.
Oh.
You might want
to go back to sleep.
Are we...
In the arena.
This dummy talked Forge into
putting us in the games.
Dummy? I saved our lives!
And I got us right above where
Doric said the treasure was.
Isn'’t it a little suspect
that Sofina would agree to this?
Yeah, she'’s definitely
planned something.
Where under the arena
were you?
Do you remember?
Not sure.
There was a dock down there.
I saw guards loading
everything onto a ship.
A ship. Forge wasn'’t hiding
the loot from us.
He was stealing it
for himself.
He never cared about being Lord.
That just gave him access
to the vault.
He must have brought back
the games so the take
would be bigger.
What about Kira?He won'’t leave her behind.
We have to get to that boat.
I don'’t understand.
If Forge is leaving, what does
Sofina get out of this?
Maybe I can
get us out of here.
Magic suppression cuff.
They put one on me too.
And just when you were
getting good at it.
So we just
go through the maze?
I guess till
we reach the cage?
Run!
Find the cage!
Follow me!
Whoa, whoa!
Thanks.
-Where are the others?
-Come on, this way.
Have you tried
Displacer Beast meat?
No. It'’s too gamey for me.
The ship is ready, sir.
It seems my ship
is ready, so...
Kira and I will
be taking our leave.
I do hope that our collaboration
has been as gratifying for you
as it has for--
Get out of my city.
Right.
Get out of the way!
It'’s burning!
Another minute,
I would have lost my hand.
Yeah, but look what
you did lose.
Come on.
Doric? Doric!
There must be a way
to get out of the arena.
Come on! Come on!
Yeah. Come on!
No.
No, this isn'’t the way out.
Yes, it is.If we survive this, there'’ll be
another challenge and another
until every last person
in that cage is dead.
We have to find a work-around.
I'’ve got an idea. Follow me.
No! Come back!
Hey! What'’s your idea?
When we hear the gong,
we jump in.
Into this thing?
You want to end up
like that guy?
We will only be inside
for a few seconds.
Well, If we'’re all inside,
who'’s gonna pull us out?
-I will, trust me.
-Always.
Hold.
Hold!
Now!
Damn it! That stings!
We got to move.
I'’ve been here.
Our gear.
Simon. Try these
on your cuff.
Come with me.
Quite a second date,
yeah?
-A trip?
-Yes.
Something urgent has come up,
but if we leave now
we'’ll be safe.
Safe from what?
What is this?This is an ambush.
On the boat you were gonna use
to escape from Neverwinter.
Dad.Hi, honey.
Hey, Forge, why don'’t you
tell her what this is?
I don'’t know.It'’s the Tablet of Reawakening,
Kira.
It'’s the reason why
I left you.
Your dad'’s been
telling you the truth, Bug.
It'’s Uncle Forge
who'’s been feeding you lies.
It'’s rubbish.
It'’s just rubbish!
Come with me, Kir.
We'’ll go home,
bring back Mom.
We can be a family again.
You'’re not taking my money.
Put down the tablet and get off
my ship, all of you.
Now!Okay. Okay. Okay.
What are you doing?
It'’s all right.
Shush, my darling, be quiet.
It'’s going down.
Just don'’t hurt her.
See that, Kira?
Your father knows me.
He knows I'’m prepared
to do terrible things
to get what I want.
Even to those I care about most.
In the end, that'’s all
that separates the beggar--
Nobody hurts my Bug.
Simon, get us out of here!
Sorry, Ed.
Sorry, Forge!
What'’s that one on about?Who knows?
Twenty thousand
on the Gray Hands!
I'’m sorry I believed him.
What? What are you
talking about?
You have nothing
to apologize for.
I should have done
so many things differently.
I had a whole apology,
but I sort of gave it to Sofina.
I love you, Kir.
And nothing will ever
get in the way
of that again, okay?
Promise.
I love you too, Dad.
It'’s good to have you back, kid.
Do you know how much loot
is on this ship?
I'’m surprised
the boat can float.
All right. So, we'’re gonna
need to lay low.
What is that?
It'’s the Beckoning Death.
That'’s why
she needed Forge.
The games brought the city
together for the spell.
Szass Tam
is taking Neverwinter.
Well, shit.
So what do we do
when we get there?
Working on it. Simon,
what did you say the range was
in that portal staff?
A quarter mile. Why?
I'’m gonna keep that promise
I made to Xenk.
Whatever that is,
stop it. Now!
Look! She'’s Thayan!
Please! Please stop!
You there! Harbor master person.Are you seeing this?
As Lord of Neverwinter,
I demand a ship and crew
to chase down
five people who have--
What is this? No!
It'’s the gift
Forge promised!
No! No! No!
No, no, no! No! No!
No!
That'’s for you.
Enjoy that.
All right.
This isn'’t over until
we take her out.
Whatever happens to us,
stay hidden.
Use your pendant.
Where do you think
she'’s gone?
She missed.
You all right?
What do we do
when we get to her?
I got this.
You know not
the scope of my power!
Enough!
It'’s another Time Stop!
Simon, can you counter it?I can'’t. She'’s still too strong!
I'’m so sorr--
For too long
I endured the arrogance
of Forge Fitzwilliam.
The false charm.
The quips.
And just as I begin
to purge this place
of its living filth,
you dare interpose.
Now, as you die,
rest assured
it will not be the end.
For you will forever suffer.
I'’m sorry, your breath
just smells like... old clothes.
It'’s bad.
What is this?
I countered your Time Stop.
I got better.
We had to distract you
so Kira could slap on that cuff
and so Doric could do this.
I think you got her.
I honestly didn'’t think
that plan was gonna work.
You assured us it would.
Hey, Holga!
Did we get her?Holga?
Yeah.
Yeah, we got her.
Oh, that'’s...Oh, God.
That'’s not a good spot, is it?
No, it'’s not--
it'’s not bad.
Here.
Simon! Simon, help her.
It'’s a Red Wizard'’s blade.
There'’s nothing I can do.
Hey. Hey.
We'’re gonna patch you up.
It'’s not gonna be a problem.
Please don'’t go.
Easy, Bug, easy.Please don'’t go.
Don'’t mourn me.
No, no, no. No final words.
No final words.I'’m proud of what I did here.
I'’m dying a hero.
And you...
You'’re a good man.
A real Harper.
Shut up. I'’m a moron,
you know that.
Promise me something.
Yeah, anything.
That you'’re gonna take
good care of our girl.
She'’s the best thing
you ever did.
I will.
♪ Not fortune found
Nor fate divine♪
♪ Come close to toping
The juice of the vine♪
♪ With cherry crew
We sip and sway♪
♪ Let'’s tip the tankard♪
♪ And waste the day♪♪ And waste the...♪
♪ Ree-raw! Well, ye ken♪
No.
No!
I need you.
We can only use it once.
I know.
Holga Kilgore.
Don'’t tell me
you wasted it on me.
Why would you do that?
Szass Tam won'’t
be happy about this.
Well, if he comes after us,
we'’ll be ready.
We?
Oh, that'’s right.
You don'’t like humans,
do you?
Some are okay.
What about you?Hmm?
Going back to the Harpers?
Be with your people?
I'’m with my people.
So, uh,
I know my last attempt
to court you was
quite bad.
But I wonder if you'’d consider
having another go at it?
Yeah, all right.Yeah?
Calm down.Right.
Damn! Bloody chalice.
Good evening.
Of course, you know
what happened after that.
With Sofina'’s magic expunged,
Lord Neverember
finally came to.
His first official act
was to award
the saviors of Neverwinter
the Medal of Heroism.
And to the Emerald Enclave,
he granted formal protection
of their people and their land.
One could argue that my actions,
reprehensible though they were,
led to a virtual renaissance
for the city.
And while I'’ve only served
the first year of my sentence,
I have to say,
it has been
eye-opening.
I have taken a look inside
and I'’ve asked myself,
"What'’s going on in there?"
And, you know, I realized
a lot of it goes back to my mum.
She was a stern woman,
prone to fits of--
Stop, stop!
We'’ve heard enough.
Pardon denied.
This session
is adjourned.
Jarnathan!
No, no! I'’m terribly sorry.
I don'’t know what came over me,
I'’m sorry. I'’m sorry!
Hello?
Can somebody please
ask me another question?
Anyone?